# Waste-Management-App-project
# Theme
Waste Management In a densely populated country like India, waste management is an issue which stands unresolved. Using technology, we aim to solve the same and “BUILD FOR INDIA”.
# Inspiration
1.To improve upon and optimize the garbage collection & disposal methods carried upon in our country.
2.To reduce the amount of wastes piled up in the dump yards by efficiently utilizing the wastes.
3.To involve the company and a third party to carry out this whole ideation, henceforth increasing employment and user incentives.
# Overview
App to make the users collaboratively manage waste in different communities such as household, offices, markets etc. Such communities can connect with those industries which can turn waste into raw/usable materials, thus converting waste material into usable components. The idea is to automate the waste collection and waste reusability process through the website. The different types of wastes are segregated at community levels such as plastic waste from markets and public places, organic waste and newspaper waste from households, specific liquid/solid/gaseous waste from industries. These wastes can be chosen by various types of industries, communities to be utilized efficiently. Therefore, instead of dumping of waste to another area, we propose to deliver waste to those who require it. Hence, reducing the overall waste generated.
# The Problem
The waste management routine currently employed in our country is not smart or efficient. The garbage collected is neither segregated nor properly decomposed. Thus the landfills size, where the garbage is dumped keeps on increasing.

# Goals
Get rid of the waste generated: An average indian citizen is observed to generate 0.44 to 4.3 kg of waste day. Not only this an industry or a market region generates a n amount of waste which is much larger than the resources municipal has for its collection. Henceforth, our website proposes to automate the retrieval of garbage generated from these domains by involving vendors who can actually be benefitted from such waste collection. Waste collection by the companies who require them: A lot of companies primarily the ones targeting the packaging and stationary or the ones working on the recycling are the frequent collectors of waste. So our idea is to integrate these companies with the suppliers directly, so as the role of municipality is reduced as much as possible. This all will be implemented on a set radius. A business model can be linked to the same whose details are listed below.
# Basic Implementation 
1.Login Portal - There will be 2 types of login -
2.Giver - These are people/waste generators who are within a particular type of community (viz. Household, Offices, Market and Industries). They can perform actions like - i) Ordering on the website - once a certain specified amount of waste has been generated by a user, they can notify/list it on the website. The waste can be picked up by the physical agents/drivers sent through the website.
3.Taker - These are people who want to collect waste and want to use that waste for their own use. They include the companies and organizations who require those waste products as raw materials for their products. For instance, a company making registers from recycled paper requires waste paper and a lot of waste paper is generated in offices having a lot of paperwork. They can select/’accept’/sweekar what type of waste do they need and that waste will be delivered to their doorstep by the physical agents/drivers.

# Working
*Our website involves a total of 3 steps:

1.Collection of waste from the user. The waste collected is divided in 5 Categories : Paper, Plastic, Organic, Glass, Metal. The users can submit waste that
2.The delivery of the waste from the user to the company where the latter can order the waste materials they want to use/process, right to their doorstep.
3.Utilisation of Waste : The company now, uses the waste by amicably collecting it, profusely processing it and efficiently recycling it. (For example: A packaging company may require old newspaper/books, an animal farm may require organic wastes and so on.)